ReadMe.md, before:

# Horse Race Simulator

A Horse Race Simulator in text version and in a GUI version.

## Table of Contents

- [Horse Race Simulator](#project-name)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Introduction

This Project aims to make a game the user can enjoy in their free time. The project has 2 parts: 
- part 1 is a text version of the game with limited features.
- part 2 is a GUI version of the game that has many customisable features including a betting mechanics.

## Features

Part 1:
- displays the race on command prompt
- allows the user to repeat the race multiple times

Part 2:
- displays the race on a GUI window
- allows the user to repeat the race multiple times
- allows the user to chose the number of lanes
- allows the user to chose the colour of the horses
- allows the user to chose the colour of the equipments
- allows the user to chose the colour of the fence
- allows the user to chose the colour of lanes
- allows the user to chose the breed
- allows the user to chose the colour of kit the jockey is wearing
- allows the user to bet on a horse

## Installation

## Installation

1. **Prerequisites**: Ensure that you have Java Development Kit (JDK) installed on your system. You can download and install it from the [official Oracle website](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk16-downloads.html) or use OpenJDK.

2. **Download the Source Code**: Clone or download the source code of the Java program from the repository.

3. **Compile the Java Program**: Open your command line interface (e.g., Terminal on macOS/Linux, Command Prompt or PowerShell on Windows) and navigate to the directory containing the Java source code (`RunHorseRaceSimulator.java`). Use the following command to compile the Java program: javac RunHorseRaceSimulator.java

4. **Run the Java Program**: Once the Java program is compiled successfully, you can run it using the following command: java RunHorseRaceSimulator

5. **View Output**: If your Java program produces any output, you will see it in the command line interface.

## Usage

Part 1:
- After running the program the code should run immediately then the user can decide to type y or n to start another race or stop the program respectively.

Part 2:

Commit message:

@author: Jadid Alam @version: 1.1 @date: 23/01/2024
- added instructions of usage for Part 2

ReadMe.md, after:

# Horse Race Simulator

A Horse Race Simulator in text version and in a GUI version.

## Table of Contents

- [Horse Race Simulator](#project-name)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Introduction

This Project aims to make a game the user can enjoy in their free time. The project has 2 parts: 
- part 1 is a text version of the game with limited features.
- part 2 is a GUI version of the game that has many customisable features including a betting mechanics.

## Features

Part 1:
- displays the race on command prompt
- allows the user to repeat the race multiple times

Part 2:
- displays the race on a GUI window
- allows the user to repeat the race multiple times
- allows the user to chose the number of lanes
- allows the user to chose the colour of the horses
- allows the user to chose the colour of the equipments
- allows the user to chose the colour of the fence
- allows the user to chose the colour of lanes
- allows the user to chose the breed
- allows the user to chose the colour of kit the jockey is wearing
- allows the user to bet on a horse

## Installation

1. **Prerequisites**: Ensure that you have Java Development Kit (JDK) installed on your system. You can download and install it from the [official Oracle website](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk16-downloads.html) or use OpenJDK.

2. **Download the Source Code**: Clone or download the source code of the Java program from the repository.

3. **Compile the Java Program**: Open your command line interface (e.g., Terminal on macOS/Linux, Command Prompt or PowerShell on Windows) and navigate to the directory containing the Java source code (`RunHorseRaceSimulator.java`), chose 'part1' for text version and 'part2' for GUI version. Use the following command to compile the Java program: javac RunHorseRaceSimulator.java

4. **Run the Java Program**: Once the Java program is compiled successfully, you can run it using the following command: java RunHorseRaceSimulator

5. **View Output**: If your Java program produces any output, you will see it in the command line interface.

## Usage

Part 1:
- After running the program the code should run immediately then the user can decide to type y or n to start another race or stop the program respectively.

Part 2:
- After running the program a windown will apear with the horse race simulation.
- The tracks can be customised by clicking on the colours under "Track Colour:" and "Fence Colour" and to change the track length click on the given lengths under "Track Length (km)".
- To Bet on a horse, click the number of horse you want to bet on under "Bet on Horse", then type a number in under "Bet Amount", then Click the "Bet" button.
- To customise a horse, click on the number of the horse you want to customise under "Customise Horse", then chose colours of the horse, breed, saddle and kit under "Horse Colour", "Breed", "Saddle Colour" and "Kit Colour" respectively.
- To start the race click the "Start!" button. Be aware that after clicking start the you cannot bet!
